Finally we get to apply some logical organization
to some chaotic code structures.
Thanks for hanging in there with me through a bit of slide punishment.
Hey, at least I'm told my voice sounds okay at 1.5 speed.
All kidding aside, if you are listening to me at 1.5,
this is where you might want to dial it back a little as we
wade into our proverbial swamp by learning about and ultimately
applying some stack patterns to our monolith. Stick with me for
just a few more slides,
and I promise the rest of the module will be all about demos.
Okay, let's talk about slide patterns a bit.
Notice that I've used the newer CloudFormation icon
on the slide. In that regard,
if you have at least a moderate background of CloudFormation,
you've likely built or inherited some other
developer's 100,000‑line JSON or YAML file,
by which your boss said, hey,
learn this so we can make changes to our infrastructure.
Out of pure necessity,
patterns began to emerge to circumvent these resource limitations.
If you've watched any of the other CloudFormation videos on
Pluralsight or you're just an old CloudFormation convert,
you've likely seen these patterns.
One popular technique was sometimes called the main or skeleton pattern,
by which a single stack was created with little or no resources in
it that simply defined other logical stacks.
In this case,
the stack definitions are stored in the other stack files. AWS
treated these as nested stacks by which all stacks would
deploy together in the same console.
Other stack patterns, such as pure nesting,
evolved to create logical hierarchies of stacks. In this often
hard‑to‑grasp concept, nested stacks could dive multiple levels
deep to create some hierarchy of resources.
Still other designs came out that were more tailored to
breaking up large sets of JSON by some logical layer,
functional relationship or business‑driven need.
So you may ask why there doesn't seem to be a lot of
discussion around stack design best practices.
In other words,
why doesn't the well‑architected framework tell us how to build
our stacks and simply prescribe it for us?
Well, the reason for this is simple.
Your stack design is generally based on your business needs.
In that regard,
Amazon can't and won't tell you how to model your business, so Amazon
can't really tell you how to model your stacks.
Well,
let's take a few examples. First and foremost, one very
popular stack pattern might model stacks and resources
around a business‑driven design.
I used the Globomantics logo here, TechStream notwithstanding.
Perhaps Globomantics is heavily siloed, and one department,
quite frankly, doesn't interact all that much with the other.
Perhaps they have separate budgets,
separate operations, and even separate development resources. If that were true,
they may choose to build stacks completely around
departments and groups as opposed to functions.
You can imagine that in this case each department would
heavily duplicate resource types,
such as a web server or a database. In a heavily siloed
environment, that isn't such a bad thing.
You can certainly build governing conventions and rules, and then
turn departments or groups loose to build away.
Let's take the other side of the coin.
A centralized organization that highly shares resources and tools
may choose to build more of a functional design.
A functional design builds stacks and resources around functions
such as a web server or a database function.
This would promote heavy reusability, however,
as you can imagine, heavy sharing around logical functions in a
large organization could come with its own problems.
It is difficult to be flexible when both Legal and Marketing are
somehow sharing the same set of resources. Legal may need to
keep data in S3 buckets for 7 years,
whereas the Development team may not need any retention at all.
There are also many organizations that are extremely hierarchical.
Deeper organizations can share at common levels and
then inherit at parent levels.
The CDK is by definition object oriented.
So can you think of a situation where encapsulation and
inheritance could be used across construct hierarchies?
In many cases, there just may be no logical organization structure to a company.
Think of a startup. Don't immediately think of this is a bad thing.
An organization like this needs to be extremely flexible.
To that end,
they might choose to build only basic constructs to which you can add little
or no stack design from a centralized construct library.
We'll explore that idea later in the course. And finally,
aren't there an infinite number of business processes
and operational modalities out there?
There are reasons to build monolith stacks after all. A single
monolith stack organizes all resources into a single,
easily controlled CloudFormation stack,
which you can create and destroy in one command.
Want to see a neat distributed monolith? Check out Dylan
Burris's distributed monolith design here.
It shows a super cool way to build a single stack that
still uses well‑organized code principles.
If you've been curious so far,
this is precisely why you don't really find a page on the well‑architected
framework that prescribes how to build a set of stacks.
So what about TechStream?
What type of design would make the most sense for Josh and Ellen to choose?
Well, first and foremost, TechStream was an acquisition.
They haven't really been integrated into the longstanding
Globomantics technology process and culture.
And if you remember from the first module,
the CEO has alerted Josh and Ellen that more similar
acquisitions will be coming shortly.
It would seem that Globomantics seems to bolster its
development teams through acquisition.
What might those priorities look like?
As discussed, Ellen wants a very high degree of reuse.
She wants newly acquired resources to be able to use objects that promote quick,
reusable efficiency, and in the process,
she wants to take advantage of the skillsets of the developers without
compromising their need to overly understand the infrastructure.
If you were leaning towards a functional stack design,
you'd be right. With this design, even if Globomantics
were a heavily siloed organization,
it could remain that way while taking advantage of the
nimble nature of the new acquisitions.
New development teams can focus on what they're good at, development,
while sharing well‑designed constructs with the rest of the organization.
To do this,
they'll be able to heavily leverage the construct
library we'll build later in the course.
How did Josh and Ellen at Globomantics, in general,
benefit from this type of design?
Can you think of some immediate impacts?
Well, first and foremost,
distributing stacks around functions can impart a great
sense of control for the organization.
And although our demo app is serverless,
think of some type of IT infrastructure or security team managing all
these assets associated with securing networks and access.
That team could manage all aspects of security for cloud‑deployed
resources by owning these resource types. The appropriate security
groups could control any changes or additions needed to the
security layer in the ecosystem.
Beyond that,
the benefits of reuse are almost limitless in this case. Reuse also
bolsters governance, as approved best practice resources and
constructs can be built and used by all groups,
imparting very high consistency and expected execution.
Reusing anything pre‑created obviously impacts the ability to be
more efficient, and onboarding new groups can take significantly
less time, as they're simply falling into a pre‑designed set of
rules and resource development. All those things allow for a
greater degree of expansion, planning, and forecasting.
These air just a few benefits high on Ellen's priority list. With that in mind,
let's get busy designing functional stacks for our demo application to satisfy Ellen's plans.